{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue27;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17360\viewh9520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The global demand for polyethylene terephthalate (PET), or more commonly known as plastic, continues to rise, despite our growing consciousness of its detrimental impacts on the environment. Bioplastics such as polylactic acid (PLA) will be the more sustainable, renewably-sourced, and energy efficient alternatives to PET. PLAs are biosourced and biodegradable, and their manufacturing process emit 3x less carbon dioxide than PET manufacturing and have demonstrated their utility in the market. However, the current manufacturing capabilities of factories making PLAs are limited and far from meeting the global demand for plastic. \
\
PLA is a polymer chain formed by the condensation of lactic acids, which are naturally produced and secreted by cells. The production begins with biomass feedstocks, such as corn, followed by bacterial fermentation, and downstream processing (such as purification and polymerization). The rate and cost of PLA production are restricted by a number of reasons. 1) Slow carbon conversion rate in microbes. 2) Challenges in maintaining culture conditions when scaling up (often requiring expensive additives such as antibiotics). 3) costs in down-stream processing, especially the ring-opening polymerization reaction, which not only is energy intensive and expensive, but also produces a racemic mixture of lactides (monomer precursor to PLA) that requires further quality control or purification. \
\
We intend to use biological solutions, by constructing a microbial strain with superior performance in the above aspects, using multi-omics metabolic engineering techniques, to tackle the production challenges in scaling PLA manufacturing. Using a metabolic system modeling tool that we developed, we have identified a number of promising biosynthetic pathways that produces lactides with specified stereochemistry, which can potentially cut down the down-stream processing cost significantly. We also plan to engineer the microbes to grow and produce the target metabolite, L-lactide, under anaerobic conditions, reducing the need for gas exchanges and therefore reducing the chances of contamination and the need for antibiotics. }